## Diabetes-Predictor Scope and Objectives

In the United States, roughly 12% of the population has diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is a preventable, chronic disease that drastically changes the life of those who experience it. The objective of this project is to utilize the XGBoost library to apply a gradient boosting algorithm on a set of data the team acquired from Kaggle that, when analyzed, should reasonably predict whether an individual is diabetic or is not diabetic (where further iterations should provide insight into signs of diabetic symptoms in individuals who may be pre-diabetic. This outcome is dependent on factors such as age, diet, gender, and health metrics (BMI, cholesterol, mental health) and behaviors (alcohol consumption, smoker), where we intend to implement min-max scaling to normalize for our usage.

The modeling process will be a simple five-step process: data splitting, data normalization, model classification, training, and finally prediction. We will use tools such as pandas and Scikit-learn to prepare our data and provide comparisons throughout the process, and the XGBoost framework will provide us with the ability to classify, train, and predict our outcomes throughout the built in Gradient Boost methods within the framework. We expect that our output would correctly classify individuals as diabetic or non diabetic, reflected by the precision of the result, and as further testing occurs with additional data we would hope for a higher level of precision, which would allow us  to predict those who could be pre-diabetic based on the symptoms presented in our dataset. 

The dataset we chose from Kaggle includes data for three categories: Diabetes, Hypertension, and Stroke prediction. For this project, it was decided to focus on Diabetes in order to limit the scope and complexity of analysis. This dataset  is comprised of 70000 entries where all values are non-null and continuous, the provided data itself was relatively clean and consise which contributed to the seclection decision. GitHub actions will be orchestrated to implement Ruff for styling and MyPy  for testing, ensuring that the codebase maintains uniformity throughout the project. Upon the creation of a new PR or a push to the remote repository, the Ruff action will identify and correct any formatting issues that it detects, and the MyPy action will notify the developer of any issues defined in it’s rule set, which will be refined as the project continues.
